#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass letter
\begin_preamble
\date{May 9, 2014}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman times
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 0
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout My Address
Mohammed Chamma
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

6379153
\end_layout

\begin_layout Send To Address

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Red fields are mandatory, green ones optional.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Signature
Mohammed Afif Chamma
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Third-Year Honours BSc With Specialization in Physics-Mathematics
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

6379153
\end_layout

\begin_layout Opening
Dear Professor Desgreniers,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Please find enclosed my work term report for my first CO-OP semester (PHY3906)
 which I partook in from January 6 to April 25, 2014.
 The work term followed my completion of the academic term 3A.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I spent my work term at Statistics Canada as a Researcher in the Modelling
 Division.
 My supervisor was Miroslav Kucera, a PhD who also works as a Researcher.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The title of my enclosed report is 
\emph on
Microsimulation, LifePaths, and Source Control at Statistics Canada
\emph default
, and in it is a description of the work environment, an overview of the
 different projects the Modelling Division participates in, and a report
 of the work I accomplished during my work term.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The report is a product of my own work, and was graciously reviewed by my
 supervisors Miroslav Kucera and Jennifer Jones, who provided me with feedback
 and suggestions for improvement.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Closing
Yours sincerely,
\end_layout

\begin_layout Location
University of Ottawa
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
